consumer ethernet has pretty much
followed the rule of each generation
having 10 times the maximum speed of the
previous one however the game is
changing there are actually some quarter
and half measures in the works yes my
friends that's right you're going to be
seeing 2.5 gigabit and 5 gigabit
ethernet devices popping up all over the
place but why to answer we spoke to ben
hacker and ben benson over at intel and
we'd like to thank them for their
contributions to this episode as
internet speeds get faster it's becoming
clear that we're going to need something
that is faster than the gigabit ethernet
that's supported by lots of our home
modems and routers even if you don't
have fiber to the home new versions of
the docsis cable internet standard can
support speeds beyond one gigabit per
second in fact two gigabit connections
are becoming common in tech mechas like
south korea and japan which is all fine
and good but why bother with this
tweener stuff when you can go out and
buy a 10 gigabit network card and 10
gigabit switch today well the issue is
that the 10 gigabit standard doesn't
work very well over most of the existing
ethernet cabling that's out there so if
you go out and buy a theoretical cable
modem with a 10 gig port on the back of
it chances are that you're going to end
up needing to change out every network
cable in your house in order to get the
full benefit of it and in commercial
installations this problem is much worse
you see many buildings have been
pre-wired with ethernet jacks in the
walls that use the older cat5e cable
standard which was designed to handle up
to one gigabit per second over a
distance of 100 meters and for a long
time that was just fine but 10 gigabit
ethernet requires a newer cable called
cat6 to go 50 meters and an even higher
end cable called cat6a with the a4
augmented to do the full 100 meters the
reason that cat5e can't carry a 10
gigabit signal effectively over those
distances is that it doesn't have as
much protection against interference and
crosstalk so what this means is that
getting 10 gigabit to work in many
places would mean ripping the old cables
out of the wall and putting in new ones
and that is alongside all of the
equipment in the networking room and all
of the client pcs that is a tough triple
whammy to the old corporate pocketbook
so the powers that be are instead
introducing a two and a half gigabit
ethernet solution because it turns out
that a cat 5e cable that was built to
spec can actually handle a two and a
half gigabit per second signal just fine
over 100 meters and even a 5 gigabit per
second signal will usually work
the hold up was just that the industry
doesn't like to bother rolling out a new
spec for less than 10 times the previous
speed because they typically view it as
not being worth the effort it takes
but given how excessive the 10 gigabit
speed is for general consumers and the
fact that 10 gigabit equipment is still
a lot more expensive the industry has
finally developed an interest in being
able to sell faster equipment at a price
that consumers can actually handle so
faster ethernet speeds then are going to
have immediate benefits for enthusiasts
and prosumers who want the additional
bandwidth for things like transferring
files between pcs and network attached
storage or running home media servers as
for the regular consumer
well the benefits today might actually
be limited but two and a half or five
gigabit ethernet jacks rolling out in
computers network adapters and modems
over the coming years means that our
underlying infrastructure is going to be
ready for future advancements like 8k
streaming video to multiple household
members and other amazing technology
that makes it so we just don't actually
have to talk to each other anymore
speaking of talking to each other i want
to talk to you about freshbooks
freshbooks is the small business
accounting software that's built for
freelancers and small business owners
it's a simple way to be more productive
more organized and to get paid faster
with freshbooks you can create and send
professional looking invoices in less
than the time that it takes for me to
read this sponsor spot you can set up
online payments with just a couple of
clicks and get paid up to four days
faster you can see when your client has
seen your invoice to put an end to the
guessing games you can track your hours
you can track your expenses and you can
do it for free for 30 days just go to
freshbooks.com techwiki and enter
techwiki in the how did you hear about
us section thanks for watching guys like
dislike check out our other videos and
leave a comment if you have a suggestion
for a future fastest possible episode we
really do read them
sometimes they're bad and we don't take
them but we do read them